The Magnto web API framework provides integrators and developers the means to use web services that communicate with the Magento system. Key features 
include:

=> Support GraphQL, REST (Representational State Transfer) and SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol). In Magento Web API coverage is the same for both REST
and SOAP.

There are three types of authentiation:

1) Third part applications authenticate with OAuth 1.0a.
2) Mobile applications authenticate using tokens.
3) Adminstrators and Customersmare authenticated with login credintals.

=> All accounts and integrations are assigned resources that they have access to. The API framework checks that any call has the authorization to perform the
request.

=> Any magento or third-party service can be configured as "webAPI" with afew lines of xml. To configure a webapi you define XML elements and attributes 
in a "webapi.xml" configuration file. If a service is not defined in a configuration file, it will not be exposed at all.

=>The framework is based on the CURD(create, update, read, delete) & search model. The system does not currently support webhooks.

=> The framework supports field filtering of web API responses to conserve mobile bandwidth.

=> Integartion style web APIs enable a single web API call to run multiple services at once for a efficient integration. An example of this behaviour can be
seen in the catalog. Where one web API call can create a product. If your payload includes the stock_item and media_gallery_entries objects, then the 
framework will also create the products inventory and media in that one API call.

What can I do with the Magento web APIs?

The APIs can be used to perform a wide array of tasks. For example:

1) Creating a shopping app. This can be a additional app that a user downloads on a mobile device. You could also create an app that an employee uses
on a showroom floor to help customers make purchases.

2) Integrate with CRM (Customer Relationship Management) or ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) backend systems such as Salesforce or Xero.

3) Integrate with a CMS (Content Management System). Currently, content tagging is not supported. 

4) Create Javascript widgets in the magento storefront or on the Admin panel. The widget makes AJAX calls to access service.

How do I get started?

You must register a web service on Admin. Use the following general steps to set up Magento to enable web services.

1. If you are using token-based authentication, create a web services user on Admin by selecting  System > Permission > All Users > Add New User.
(If you are using session-based ot OAuth authentication), you do not need to create the new user in the Admin).

2. Create a new integration in the Admin. To create an integration, click System > Extensions > Integration > Add New Integration**. Be sure to restrict 
which resources the integration can access.

3. Use a REST or SOAP client to configure authentication.


API Security

Imposing restrictions on the size and number of resources that a user can request through an API can help mitigate denial-of-service (DoS) 
vulnerabilities. By default, the following built-in API rate limiting is available:

=> REST requests containing inputs that represent a list of entities. When enabled, the default maximum is 20 for synchronous requests and 5,000 for 
asynchronous requests.

=> REST and GraphQL queries that allow paginated results can be limited to a maximum number of items per page. When enabled, the default maximum is 300.

=> REST queries that allow paginated results can have a default number of items per page imposed. When enabled, the default maximum is 20.

By default, these input limits are disabled, but you can use the following methods to enable them:

=> Set the values in Admin

=> Run the "bin/magento config:set" command

=> Add entries to the env.php file.

=> set environmentable variables.

When input limiting has been 

