
SKU => Stock keeping Unit
PLP => Product Listing Page
ORM => Object Relational Mapping

Q1) Describe various deploy modes in magento?

Ans) There are four possible deployment modes
 
1) Default Mode : - You may install magento 2 apps on a single server using this option. This mode however is not suitable for production.

2) Developer mode: - It is used when you to change or enhance the functionality of the website.

3) Production : - when your magneto site is in production, this option is activated. (When the complete deveopment of project is completed and is being 
                   used for production)

4) Maintence: - When you enable this mode, you will be unable to access the magento website while it is being updated or reconfigured.


Note: - The below command is used to check the production mode of magento.

==> php bin/magento deploy:mode:show

Q2) What are magento magic methods? 

Ans)

A magic method are special methods which are used to override PHP's default action when certain actions are performed an object. All methods starting 
with __are reserved by behaviour.

1) __get()
2) __set()
3) __call()
4) __tostring()
5) __has()
6) __isset()
7) __construct()
8) __uns()
9) __destruct()
10) __calstatic()
11) __unset()
12) __sleep()
13) __wakeup()
14) __invoke()
15) __set_state()
16) __clone()
17) __debugInfo()


Q3) Explain breifly about EAV model?

Ans) The EAV model (Entity, Attribute, Value) is also known as object-attribute-value or Open Schema Magento makes use of a database or a catalog 
management system.

EAV in intended for databases in which a higher number of attributes are used to identify a single entity, but not all this attributes are relevant to
that entity.

When you use this model, only empty-data values are kept. Although this model all for more efficient storage, it is more complicated than the falt model 
since developers must execute many queries to obtain all of the information about a product or item.

Q4) What are the types of tables created when EAV model is built?

Ans) When you construct a new EAV module, six tables are created.

1)Module
2)Module_datetime
3)Module_decimal
4) Module_int
5)Module_text
6)Module_varchar

Q5) Distinguish between EAV and flat model?

Ans) The EAV databse model is completely normalized. Each column's values is stored in its data type database, making it more complicated beause they 
must combine 5-6 tables even if only one detail is required. Columns are referred to as characteristics in EAV.

Only one table is used in the flat model. It isn't normalized, thus it keep extra space in the database. It's ideal for dynamic requirements in which 
you need to add extra columns in the future. It's performance is quick beacuse it doesn't to join 5-6 tables. Columns are reffered to as fields in the
flat model.

Q6) What are some magento features?

Ans) 
1) Search Engine is optimized.
2) Support for Google sitemaps
3) Customer's Account
4) Order Management.
5) Analysis and report.
6) Payment
7) Site Management
8) Promotion tools for marketing
9) Support from community
10) Architecture which is extremly modular.

Q7) How can you improve the performance of magento?

Ans) 

1) Disable all the modules on the website that are not been used.
2) Disable Magento's log.
3) Query catching in MySQl.
4) Optimize the website image
5) Gzip compression should be enabled.
6) Magneto caching should be enabled.
7) Making single file with all external CSS/JS.
8) Make use of content delivery network (CDN)

All of the above will increase the speed of the magento website. Making it responsive and performmance.



Q8) What are the limitation of magento software?

Ans)

Magento is one of the most popular e-commerce platforms avalibale.

The major drawback of the magento is it needs exessive amount of storage and memory. It also necessitates object-oriented programming to avoid becoming 
a complicated system. Furthermore, Magento has the potential to slow down and degrade the speed of your website. 

Q9)What are the different versions avalibale in magento?

Ans) Magento is the platform that offers wide range of items. They have been divided apart depending on a variety of options: 

1) Magento Commerce
2) Magento Order Management
3) Magento Businees Intelligence
4) Magento shipping 
5) Magento social
6) Magento open source

Magento 2.4 is the latest version give wide range of features. It offers new features and enhancements such as the B2B modle, Elastic Search, Adobe Senesi-
powered product recommendations, Adobe stack integration and more. 

Q10) What is the technology stack used by magento?

Ans) 

Magento makes use of the MySQL or MariaDB databases, the PHP programming language, and Zend framework components. PHP 7.0.2 and 7.0.10 is used in magento 2.

Q11) What are different magento product types?

Ans)

1) Simple Product:- It's utilized for a single item that doesn't have any selectable options. For instance, a pen, a copy and so on.

2) Grouped Products:- It's used in conjuction with a simple a product. Example a pen and a copy.

3) Configurable Products:- It's a single item with a few different few options to choose from. From a example a pen comes in variety of colors.

4) Virutal Product:- It is used represent a un-touhable virtual thing. For instance insurance, reservations, etc.

5) Bundle Product:- It's a generic term for collection of simple products. Example a laptop has multiple components such as processor, hardrive , RAM and 
etc.

6) Downloadable Product:- It's term of internet software. Powerpoint presentations, MP3 files, servers and etc.

Q12) What are different types of sessions? What are the benifits of using different sessions in magento?

Ans)

There are three different distinct sessions:-

1) Core session
2) Customer session
3) Checkout session

All these sessions are saved in single session. We utilize different sessions because there are occasions when we only a need a portion of a sessions
data rather than on entire sessions data.

Q13) What RMA stands for in magento?

Ans)

RMA stands for Return Merchandise Authorization. Which buyers to return, repair, or replace products they have previously purchased in exchange for a 
refund or credit. Each store return policy will be different, but each will provide customers with thorough information regarding the valid time and 
circumstances for returning items. As a result, RMA will follow the policy to help clients complete their requests effectively.

Q14) Exaplin in breif virtual type magento?

Ans)

On the Magento 2 platform, di.xml allows two sort of nodes: node type and node virtual type, with the virtual type being regarded as a perfect method 
rather than a type. Virtual types are similar to types, but they offer more flexibility by allowing you to define a virtual class.

Q15) What is the difference Mage::getModel() and Mage::getSingletone() ?

Ans)
==> Magento creates a new object with Mage::getModel()
==> Mage::getSingletone() checks for the existence of the object first, and if it doesn't, it produces new one.

Q16) Explain in brief about codepool in magento?

Ans)
The concept of codepool is to pull code in a magento organized format. It's specified in app/etc/modules/Company Module.xml when you register for new
module.
Magento has three codepools: core, community and local, all of which are located in the app/code/directory.

_Community:- It is used by third party extensions

_core:- It is used by magento core team

_local:- Local codepool should be used for in-hour module development and overriding of the core and community modules for custom requirement.


Q17) What are some of the benfits of using Connect Patches in Magento and what is meant by connecting patches?

Ans) 
Patch is a package of core files that are modified that aims at fixing certain security bugs that cause security vulnerabilities that were encountered
in earlier magento versions. Though, magento versions already include all the security vunerabilities fixes at the date of release.

Connect Patches have the following advantages in magento:

1) Allowing for quick installation and the overwriting of any existing translations at the same time.
2) To improve security, Magento connect downloads Magneto 2 extensions through HTTP rather than FTP by default.
3) Allowing extension developers to create new extensions with a dash character in the name to make it easier for them to do so.
4) Anytime attempting to install an extension with insufficient file system access will now be notified by magento administrators.

Q18) Is it possible to control all billing information through Magento?

Ans) 

You can accomplish the following things with your magento account as a client:

1) You have the option to change your billing address.
2) A credit card can be added.
3) Your billing history can be viewed.
4) You can link a payapal account to your account.
5) You can create receipt that is ready to print.

Q19) How do I alter the magento core API settings?

Ans)

To update the magento core API configuration, follow this instructions

-> Select system => Configuration from the admin menu
-> select magento core API from the services menu on the left side of the configuration panel.
-> Expand the general settings section by clicking on it.
-> Type the name of the Default Response Charset you want to use
-> Determine the client session Timeout
-> When you're finished, click save config button

Q20) Describe how to use google checkout in magento?

Ans) 

Magento allows online retailers to integrate with google checkout. Google checkout is google provided online payment service. It functions similar to
paypal.

Q21) What is Magento compilation feature?

Ans)

To improve performance, we can use the compilation feature to compile all magento files into a single include path.

Q22) What are the different types of handles in magento?

Ans)

The structure of the vsisble page is controlled by handles. It determines where each block will be placed on the page. Every page has its handle, and
each page request can have many handles.

Q23) Define the ORM in magento?

Ans)

Object Relational Mapping (ORM) is a programming approach for converting various data kinds into objects and vice versa.

ORM can be divided into two categories: -
1) It converts several data types into objects.
2) It converts objects to a variety of data types.

Q24) How can magento be made more secure for the cilent?

Ans)

For any e-commerce website security of the cilent is the first priority. 

To increase the security of the website for the cilent;

1) You must a develop a strong password and update is regulary.
2) Allowing remote access to the magento content manager is not recomended.
3) On production sites, do not distribute downloadable media
4) Install a magento website security extension. This module not only protects your store from prospective hackers but also provides an advanced alarm
system that allows you to deal with them quickly.

Q25) How can you add blogs in magento?

Ans) 

Blogs are most important for enhacing a website search engine rankings. As a result, you should consider adding blogs to your website to improve it and
attract more visitors.

To add a blog to magento, you have two options:

1) Use the pre-built magento blog extension
2) Create a bespoke blog module on the webshop.

Example:- Mageplaza Blog for Magento 2 is an excellent alternative if you want to set up a free ready made blog module.  
If you want to make a custom blog, on the other hand, you'll need to design a module, which isn't straightforward.

Q26) What is Model View Controller (MVC) architecture?

Ans)

Model-view-controller (MVC) is a well known magento architecture on the market today. Model, View and controller are three sections. The data and logic for
operating an application will be handles by the model. The view is a lot of what you see on the application's interface, and it also lets you display
whatever you want. Depending on the user's needs, the controller will pass or issue commands to the view and model.

Convention-based and Configuration-based MVC are the two forms of MVC currently available. Magento ahs been using a configuration-based version up
till now. To operate with the website, you'll also need a module configuration file.

Q27) Name the design patterns in magento 2?

Ans)

1) Factory Pattern
2) Singletone Pattern 
3) Model View Controller Pattern
4) Front Controller Pattern
5) Registry Pattern 
6) Prototype Pattern
7) Iterator Pattern
8) Object Pool Pattern
9) Service Locator pattern
10) Lazy Loading Pattern
11) Observer Pattern
12) Module Pattern
13) Service Contract
14) Object Manager (Which consists of 11 + Design Patterns)
15) Proxy Pattern
16) Factory Classes
17) Dependency Injection
18) Injectable Objects
19) Non-injectable objects
20) Active Records.


Q28) What is the Order life cycle in magento 2?

Ans) 

                                     New Order
                                         |
                                         |
                                         |
                                         v
                       Cancelled <--- Submit ---> On Hold
                                         |
                                         |
                                         |
                                         v
                                    Pending Payment ----> Refund
                                         |                  |
                                         |                  |
                                         |                  |
                                         v                  |
                                   Payment Received         |
                                    (Processing)            |
                                         |                  |
                                         |                  |
                                         |                  |
                                         v                  |
                                    Order Invoiced          |
                                         |                  |
                                         |                  |
                                         |                  |
                                         v                  |
                                    Order Shipped           |
                                         |                  |
                                         |                  |
                                         |                  |
                                         v                  |
                                      Complete              |
                                         |                  |
                                         |                  |
                                         |                  |
                                         v                  v
                                      Order Archived ----> Closed

1) New Order: - A new order is the order the customer places in magento store.

2) Cancelled: - The order status set to be cancelled if the customer cancels the order or if the order is not paid off.

3) On Hold:- The order is put on hold if more information is required from the customer to process an order before the order is purchased.

4) Pending:- In the order grid, the sales order status is intially pending. The pending orders are the new orders, which have not processed, and the
order can be still edited and cancelled. These orders need to be invoiced and shipped.

5) Receive payment (processing): - The order status is changed for pending to processing when the payment is received and authorized. According to the
payment is received and authorized. Acording to the payment method that the customers choose, you might receive a notification when the transaction
is authorized is processed.

6) Invoice Order:- An order is invoiced after the payment os received. Some payment methods automatically generate an invoice when the payment is
authorized and captured. The payment method decides which onvoicing options are needed for the order. After the invoice is generated and submitted, a 
copy is sent to the customer.

7) Book a single shipment:- After completing the shipment detail, the shipment is booked, also the packing slip and shipping label is printed. The 
customers receive a notification via email or text message that the package is shippe. If the tracking number is provided, then the customer can track
the shipment from their account.

To book a batch of shipments, enter and process the shipment information for several orders as a batch.

8) Order Shipped:- Order shipment is generated when an order status is changed from pending to complete.

9)Complete:- when the order is both invoiced and shipped, its status is marked as complete.

To view an order

Step 1:- Login to Magento 2 Admin Panel

Step 2:- Go to SALES --> ORDERS

Step3:- Next, you can see the list of orders. Click on the VIEW link corresponding to the order, whose order information you want to see, such as order
status.

Step4:- Here, we will see the detailed information of the order and customer account, billing address, payment and shipping method, item ordered and
order total.

On the same page, the left panel of the order provides access to different types of information related to the order.

ORDER VIEW DESCRIPTION

1) Infomration: - This section displays complete information about an order and account. It also includes the address information, payment and shipping
methods, item orders,notes and total.

2) Invoices: - An invoice is a record of payment records of an order. It lists each invoice that is associated with the order.

3) Credit Memos: -Lists each credit memo, which is associtaed with the order. It is a document that shows the amount due by the customer for a partial or
full refund.

4) Shipments: -It lists each shipment reccords of all invoices that are associated with the order and has been prepared for shipping.

5) Comments History: - Lists all notes, which are related to the order.


Q29) How to fecth 5 bestselles products programmatically in magento?

Ans)

Mage::getResourceModel('reports/product_collection')
->addOrderedQty()
->addAttributeToSelect('*')
->setPage(1,5)
->load();

Q30) How to convert default currency to others in magento?

Ans)

To convert default currency to others, select the curency and import currency rates from System -> Manage Currency -> Rates

Syntax:-

$convertedPrice = Mage::helper('directory')->currencyConvert($price, currentCurrency, newCurrency);

Q31) How to enable Maintance Mode in magento?

Ans)

Create a file as 'maintance.flag' and upload it to Magento home directory containing following code.

$maintenanceFile = 'maintenance.flag';

if(file_exists($maintenanceFile)){
   include_once dirname(__FILE__).'/errors/503.php';
   exit;
   
   }
 
 Q32) How will get teh first and last form the collection in magento?
 
 Ans)
 
 $collection->getFirstItem()
 and
 $collection->getLastItem()
 
 Q33) How to make magento working with another domain?
 
 Ans)
 
 To let the magento working with another domain, URL option of magemto base can be change.
 
 Follow these steps:-
 
 1) Select Magento admin? System? Configuration and then click web.
 2) Choose unsecure option
 3) Replace the base URL field.
 
 Q34) How can you reset Magento Files and Directory Permissions?
 
 Ans)
 
 Change the directory where magento is installed and execute the following commands.
 
 1) find.-type d -exec chmod 755
 2)chmod+x magento
 
 Q35) Is it to have more than one grid in magento?
 
 Ans) Yes, it is possible
 
 Q36) State whether namespace is mandatory while creating a custom module in Magento?
 
 Ans)
 
 No, namespace is not mandatory while creating custom module.
 
 Q37) How to enable product's custom attribute visibility in frontend?
 
Ans)
 
In Magento attributes section under custom attribute, select YES for "visible on Product View Page on Frontend" and "Used in product in listing"
 
Q38) How to run custom query in Magento?
 
Ans)
 
 To run custom query,
 
$db = Mage::getSingleton('core/resource')->getConnection('core_write');
$result = $db->query('SELECT * FROM users where id=4');
 
Q39) When you need to clear the cache to see the changes made in magento?
 
Ans)
 
When you have added or modified XML, CSS or JS file.
 
Q40) State the syntax to call a CMS page in your module's PHTML file?

Ans)

$this->getLayout()->createBlock('cms/block')->setBlockId('blockidentifer')->toHtml();

Q41)How can you add an external javascript/css file to magento?

Ans)

css/yourstyle.css

or

skin_jsjs/yourfile.js
skin_csscss/yourstyle.css

Q42) Explain different modules in Magento?

Ans)

Core Modules
Community MOdules
Custom Modules

Q43) What was initial realse date Magento?

Ans) 

31st March 2008

Q44) What is the use of XML filei n magento?

Ans)

XML stands for Extensible Markup Language a text-based language used to define markup documents to publish on web. It cna contain data and its formatting
details as common data. XML can be used for its signitficant data storage capacity, holding public standards, and being extensible compared to another
markup language. This language aas formed from extracting the properties of SGML, that is Standard Generalized Markup Language.

Understanding XML

1. Extensible: - It allows us to create different tags with proper description or language according to the need.

2. Data Storage:- It is used to store the data irrespective of how it will be presented in the next step.

3. Public Standard: - An organization called world wide consortium or w3c develop it and made it avaliable as an open standard.

Uses of XML

1. This can be used to express any type of data, and there are not many restrictions on it.

2. It is used to simplify the creation of HTML document which is used in big websites.

3. They are easily merged with style sheets which can help to create a lot of different output.

4. They are used for data exchange between different organizations or different systems.

5. They facilitate data handling and are used to store and arrange data in desired ways.

6. They are used for reloading databses or for different maintanence activities.

There are set of rules defined by XML in line with markup  language used for encoding documents to be read by both humans and machines.

==> Q) How does XML make working easy?

Writing XML documents are easy as compared to compared to other markuo languages. There are no predefined rules to follow, and authors can create their 
own tags and rules to serve their needs. In this way XML is flexible for developing the document. It can also be used in the backend of any web 
application to maintain. 

Major companies that use XML are Google, Microsoft, Facebook, Ford Motors and many others.

==> What you can do with XML?

XML can used for the storage and transportation of data and information. It purely document-based technology independent of any specialized software or 
hardware requirement. It is also self-descriptive language. Being self-descriptive, it conatins sender information, receiver information, a heading
and a message body. Information can be added at any time, extending the content of the document making XML extensible. 

Working with XML

It consists of two parts:

1. Mark up
2. Text or characters of data

The below declaration indicates the XML version and encoding

<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>

Root Element

A single XML document has only one root element like below:

<root>
<x>...</x>
<y>...</y>
</root>

Case Sensitive: -

The XMl element is always case senestive, which means that the start and end elements have to be in the same case.

An attriute is a single property of an element that uses a name-value pair. There may be multiple attributes for an element. 

Example: -

<a href = "http://www.samplearticle.com/">Sample</a>

href -> is the attribute
http://www.samplearticle.com/ -> is the attribute value

There few syntax rules defined for attributes as defined below:-

1) The XML attribute name is case sensitive
2) There must not be multiple values for the same attribute.
3) The attribute values appear in quotation marks, whereas attributes names are defined without quotatin marks.


There are two types of references: -

Entity Reference: -

In an entity reference, there is a name defined between the start and end delimiters. Any kinds of predefined string like text or mark-up can be used 
as a  name.

Character Reference:-

The character refernces have references containing a hash mark ("#") followed by a number. The number refers to the unicode of a character.

The names of attributes and elements are ase sensitive, meaning the start and end attributes should be in the same case. All character encoding problems
can be avoided by saving the document in Unicode UTF-* or UTF-16 format. 

Advantages

1. The document standard is an international standard and is maintained by W3C, the organization that is responsible for maintaining web standards. 
XML documents are not particular to any vendor nor tied to any single application or organization. There are a lot of varieties of document writers that
are available in the market. Some of them are often proprietary and work with the software allocated for that particular type of document. However, XML 
documents can be created in any editor and can be edited on a different editor, thus making them independent of a particular assigned editor. Even 
Notepad text editor can be used to create XML documents, although it is not recommended.

2. XML tags or XML elements are used to define the structure of an XML document. Once document structure is defined that, processes can be selected like
style sheets to manipulate the content and reuse them after manipulation. With content being separated from the display, we can use single-source 
content in many different contexts. Unlike HTML, it does not have a fixed number of tags or elements, thus allowing the designer to design a document 
with meaningful tags. It allows designers to create markup language according to their needs. Even new elements can be defined as per requirement giving
the designer the ability to make custom elements is a unique feature offered by XML.

3. They provide a feature of reuse of the contents, thereby allowing the different organizations to save much money and effort along with making the 
authors more efficient. Once the content is created, that can be used in several other documents. XML documents are often manipulated to adjust the 
needs of different users. Different style sheets can be applied to an XML document to manipulate the content which is appropriate for some particular 
users or to output different types of documents.

4. The separation of content and format is allowed by XML. A separate style sheet is maintained where the formatting of the XML document is done. Thus,
because of this independence, easy updating and maintenance of the document are possible when needed. Also, it is easy for maintaining a consistent 
stylesheet for all documents when the content is separated from the formatting.

5. It is very useful when publishing a document in more than one language or multiple languages originating from the same source. The override of 
translations also can be reduced if the content is stored in XML source files. Thus, when publishing the documents in several languages can be done with
just a single click. The formatting is automatically applied when publishing the source XML files.

==>Q) Why should we use XML?

There are many purposes of using XML, like transporting the data in a structured format from a source point to any destination and many others. The tags 
used in XML are for ensuring the structure of the data. The combination of tags and texts is used to store information. The text is surrounded by tags 
that are written following pre-defined rules and contains meaningful information about the enclosed text. Thus, it is very easy to store information and 
transport them very easily.

==> Q) Why do we need XML?

The need for it is vast as it is used for outsourcing the data primarily. HTML documents use XML to store the data as a backend. It stores the data in a
plain text format, and it is independent of the platform, which can be imported or exported or simply move from one place to another without any problem.



Q45) What are observer and events?

Ans) 

Events:- 

Events are dispacted by magento 2 modules whenever specific actions are triggered. When an event dispacthes, it passes data to the observer that is
configured to watch that event. You can dispatch Magento 2 Events using the Magento\Framework\Event\ManagerInterface class. This class can be obtained through
dependency injection by defining the dependency in the constructor method of the class.

To dispatch an event, you have to cal the dispatch function of the event manager class, providing the name of the event along with an array of data
that you wish delievr to observers.

Observers:-

Observers are the particular classes that control the general behaviour, performance or change in the business logic of the store. They are executed
whenever a specific for which they were set to listen is tiggered.

To create an observer in magento 2, you must place your class file under the ModuleRoot/Observer  diretctory. The observer class file should use 
Magento\Framework\Event\Observer and Magento\Framework\Event\ObserverInterface class define the executive function.

Q46) What is API and what are the API's used in magento?

Ans)



