Magento is open-source using php scripting language on zend framework. 

(Zend Framework: - Zend is an open-source php framework. It is completly object oriented and built aroun the MVC (Model Control View) design pattern. I
It conatins collection of php packages which can be used develop web applications and services.)

Magento was first developed by varien in 2007. The current version and latest version of magento is 2.3 which was deeloped in 2019.

Some of the ecommerce websites that use magento are shopify, woocommerce, 3dcart, opencart etc. beacause: -

     => Magento is free and fully extensible.
     => Sellers have ownership and full access to hosting services.
     
 Advantages:-
 
 1)Customizable
 
 Magento lets you customize almost everything, from the look of your website to the design of the categories and offerings. 
 It is an open-source platform and offers numerous plugins for accounting, payment, processing, and shipping.

*** Magento tools are beginning to take advantage of the Adobe intelligence layer they call Sensei. 
*** They use it in conjunction with Adobe Analytics and Adobe Target to collect data and offer more personalized recommendations.

Magento supports 3rd party integrations such as payment gateways. 
 
2)SEO Friendly

Magento is super-efficient for Search Engine Optimization (SEO), leading to better visibility for your products on Google.

*** Magento scores a perfect 100 out of 100 in the search engine optimization domain.

The websites created with Magento are mobile responsive and compatible with all screen sizes and browsers.
Some Magento web platform features include SEO-friendly URLs, meta descriptions, sitemaps, auto-generation of Google roadmap,
positioning layers, prefixes, suffixes & tags that help you rank higher and buyers find you faster.


3) Scalable

Magento significantly assists this by offering hassle-free launches, efficient product migration.
Regardless of the number of stores you plan to have; all the data is stored and managed at a single backend office.
It also uses one of the most robust caching tools, Varnish (fastest reverse proxy and HTTP accelerators),
which improves the site performance and helps scale up the online stores.

*** Varnish delivers web content 300% to 1000% faster, with a reduction of backend server load of up to 89% while handling unlimited numbers of 
  simultaneous visitors.
  
Magento partners update their extensions frequently, adding to its flexibility feature, which is exceptional for any enterprise eCommerce platform.

4)Flexible

Flexibility allows greater scope for experimentation and innovation.
Magento 2 is supported by a robust, next-generation architecture to offer even more flexibility while building the online shop.

5)Omnichannel Support and Mobile friendly features

The responsive design that Magento offers & the comfortable check-out makes it a mobile-friendly platform.
It can be used on all screen resolutions and devices.
Responsive design makes Magento a mobile-friendly platform.

6)Easy to Integrate

To boost sales and ensure a pleasant shopping experience for the buyer, an eCommerce website needs to add multiple services such as data applications, 
logistics, shipping, order tracking, payment gateways, etc. Integrating these third-party services is quick and easy with the Magento eCommerce 
platform. The platform also allows businesses to add Google tools, including Analytics and Checkout, to understand the website’s performance and the 
ongoing market trends in-depth. The ease of integration with back-end systems and robust APIs help speed up the business’s time to market.

7)Large Community of Users

The vast user base of Magento makes it a platform that offers prompt assistance.
 
 
Video 1: -
Magento Website has: - 

1) Dashboard
2)Sales ->All transaction can be seen.
3) Catalog -> where the products are been added to the list or removing or updating is done based on the division and category.
4) Customers -> We can see the all the customers and items that are been added by customers into their cart.
5) Marketing -> Is used to make the promotions while users open the website or while checkout. We can also see the newsletters like how many people 
have subscribed to the website and we can send the email updates about their orders. We can also for what the users are looking for while they are
browsing in the site.
6) Content -> It is used to design the pages, widgets and blocks of the websites. 
7) Reports -> It provides the report of the all sales, orders, number of users, products etc that are throught out certain period of time.
8) Stores -> It helps to the product configuration, store configuration , user configuration that we needed.
 
 
Video 2:-
Manging the categories of the producst by using catlog option provided.
We are going to manage the sales report, sample data, export data, viewing report, refund reports, abandoned cart report, average cart report,
popular products report.

Video 3: -
How to process orders & credit memos/refunds.

In sales menu we can see all the information related to a products. What an customer is been adding. The total cost of the products of what customer has
purhased. The delivery details of the product to which location. We can amount to refunded to the customer after the cancellation of the products.

Video 4: -

Manging Admin and Users

We can go to systems option shown below to add any new employee or admin or we can also add the users.
For employee or admin we can give access to the particular category or we can access to the multiple categories at the same time and save the role.

Video 5: -

Viewing Reports by clicking on reports section.

Sales Report:- We can get the complete sales report of order updated or order created. We can also select period whether the orders created within a day,
month or year. After selecting we can duration (FROM - TO). Order status etc. We can data after selecting the options needed. 

We can also see the product report  order by the customers and product reviews report given by the customers. We also have abndoned cart, order total 
cart, Best Sellers Report

Video 6: -

Overview of Customer Management

Opening the customer section

We can view all the details of the customers by opening this section. We can create reorder the products for the customer. We see the wishlist of the
customers. We can change the shipping address as they needed. We can give comments on their orders.

Video 7: -

Create Manual Magento 2 Backups


Systems => Tools => Backups

Types of Backup: -

1) System Backup
2) Database and Media Backup
3) Database Backup

Backup's can be done on regular intervals.


After select the backup we needed. We should give a name to the backup and click procced. Then we can the data of the creation of backup. Along with that 
an zip file will be created. We could also download it or roll back it.

Video 8: -

Manage Customer reviews

When we go the marketing section we can see the reviews given by the customers as well as we can generate some reviews as users from the backend.
And then the review will be approved by the admin and then the review is displayed in the UI that seen by the user.

We can go to the stores section and we can select the types of reviews that customers are going to give


video 9:-

Manage Store (Website, store and store views)

How to manage the new stores?

Video 10: -

Transactional Email Setup

Go to -> Marketing (Section) -> Email Templates -> Add new template 

Load default template where you need to use the template.(E.g new account, payment details, order details etc)

then save template. The template also can be previewed before configuring it.

To configure -> stores -> configuration -> customers -> customer configuration. Select the deflaut template to created template.



Video 11: -

Backend Search Terms Synonyms and Optimization


Go to -> Marketing -> search terms -> Add New search term 

Now we can add the new search and give link to the particular word.

and we can add that to the search synonym. so if searched word is similar to the word mentioned then link gets open related to that.


Video 12: -

How to manage promotions -> cart, cupons and catalog price rules

Catalog Prie Rules

Go to -> Marketing -> Catalog Price Rule -> Add New Rule

make promotions whether discount or price off on the products while buying. We will be giving a name to that paticular rule and selecting the from to 
till date and selecting the offer is applicable for either wholesalers, or retailers or all of them.
Under the conditions section select the category that you wanted to give offer.


Cart Rules

Go to -> Marketing -> Cart Price Rule -> New Cart Rule

Giving offers for by making some cupon codes. It may be to one or more than one based on the value given in User Per Cupon. And also Uses Per Customer 
whether a customer can use once or more than one time. From to Till date. Giving condition so that to whom it is applicable and making the cupon active.

We can also auto generate the cupons by clicking on the Manage Coupon codes and the number f quantity we wanted. so that the coupons are automatically 
generated.

Video 13:-

Setup Meta Robots Tags and Robots.txt (Search Engine Robots)

Go to -> Stores -> Configuration -> General -> Design

Default Robots -> Index,Follow

robot.txt ===> Didn't Understand

Video 14:-

Notifications Overview

Go to -> Settings -> Notifications 

Video 15:-

Sitemap Setup (Need more Clarity)

Sitemap => 
A sitemap is a file where you provide information about the pages, videos, and other files on your site, and the relationships between them. 
Search engines like Google read this file to crawl your site more efficiently.

Go to -> Marketing -> SEO search (Site map) -> Add Site Map

Go to -> stores -> Configuration -> Catalog -> XML sitemap

Video 16:-

Mangement of CMS/ Content Pages

Go to --> Content --> Pages --> Add New Page (If want to make changes select the page make edits )


Making page about some podcut to give detail information about it. or Page not found page etc.

Video 17:-

Customer Groups

Go to -> Stores -> Custome Groups  -> Add New Customer Group

Based on the need gorup all the customers into different categories like Newly Registered customers in group, 
Customers with more number of orders in one group.

Go to -> Customers -> Edit the add group that you needed.

Video 18:-

Locked Users -> If a user logins mulyiple times with inavlid login details the user will be locked.
Go to -> Stores -> Configuration -> Customer Configuration
Go to -> Settings -> Locked Users (To check number of locked users)

Minimum Login failures  to lockout the account. and time also can be given for how long the account will be locked.

Video 19:-

Install Google Analytics on Magento 2

Go to -> Stores -> Configuration -> Sales -> Google API -> Google Analtics.
 To see numbers of users are active on the website or number of users have logged in and browsing for a product etc.
 
Video 20:-

Introduction to Magento Product Types

1) Simple Products 
2) Configurable Products
3) Grouped Product
4) Virtual Product
5) Bundle Product
6) Downloadable Product
7) Gift Card

Video 21: -

Manage Products

Magento unables two types of products they are downloadable products and Bundled products (Physical Products).

Simple Product is a product that has one set of inventorynote no real variations.that differ from inventory standpont.

A configurable Product is the set of many simple products. Having all the information about the product in one page (E.g. Color of Product, Quantity 
of product, Sizes of the product)

Video 22:- (Need To watch again)

Product Attributes and Product Attributes Templates

Go to -> Stores -> Product Template

Video 37:-

Two Factor Authentication for Admin and User login

Providing more security to the account by adding multiple login features.

Go to -> Stores -> Configuration -> Security ->2FA

Video 38:-

Backend Free of Charge Orders (?)

To allow free of charge first go to 

Stores -> Configurations -> Sales -> Payment Methods -> Zero Subtotal Checkout

Go to -> Sales -> Orders ->Create a new order (Select the store from you have given free of shippping cost) -> Choose the product

Video 39:-

Open source vs Commerece & How to choose

Video 40:-

Video 41:-

Customer Password Strength (Validations)

Go to -> Stores -> Configuration -> Customers-> Customer Configuration ->Pasword Options -> Change based on requirements (Password Length,
No.of uppercase and Lowercase letters) and save it

Video 42:-

Login as Customer

Logging into the customer account in their behakf without knowing their password to slove the problems in their account.
E.g. Browsing a product or ordering a product etc.

First to login as customer enable the extension.

For that Go to -> Stores ->Configuration -> Customers -> Login as customer

After unabling 

Go to -> Customers (Section) -> All customers -> Select the customer that you want login as -> Click on the edit option so that it redirects you

you to the next page -> Select login as customer ( After that we can products to that particular customer, Change the shipping addresss etc).



Video 43:- (Need to know more)

Changing Layout per page

Go to -> Catalog -> Categories -> Select the category in which you want to change the design -> Design option

Video 44:-

Google Analytics Enhanced Ecommerce with Magento 2 open source /w GTM

How to install and setup enhanced Ecommerce on Google Universal Analytics using an extension with Google Tag Manager (GTM) and Data Layer

Video 45:-




* It covers all the merchant s requirements: B2C, B2B global expansion, omnichannel or digital transportation.

* Each version of mogento includes two editions one community edition (CE) and Enterprise edition (EE) so- called open-source and commerce. While Magento
CE is entirely free to download  with all the basics features for small business purporse and Magento is EE is paid about $22,000 per year for the 2.2x 
version.

Magento 2 Community edition is open-source.
Magento 2 Enterprise edition is commerece.

*** Magento 2 EE pricing = Revenue * Magento License cost * percentage. ***
 
Above is the formula for the magento enterprise edition  
